# Emojicode Documentation

This is the official documentation for [Emojicode](http://emojicode.org).

## Building the documentation

The documentation is built from Markdown and JSON source files by a compiler
written in JavaScript. A Node.js installation is required to run it.

You can install its dependencies with npm:

```
npm install
```

It can then be executed:

```
node lib/index.js
```

The compiler supports the `--watch` option to watch keep running and to
automatically rebuild when it detects changes to the source files.

## Source Structure

The important source files that live in the `src` directory are:

- The files in `references` and `guides` which are compiled to *books*.

  Each file represents one chapter and each book has a `chapters.json` listing
  these chapters.

- `packages` contains resource to compile the package pages and APIs.

  Each package has its own directory containing a `meta.json` and a
  `package.json` file. The `package.json` file represents the package API can be
  generated by the Emojicode Compiler using the `-r` or `-R packageName` option.

  All packages that shall be included in the documentation are listed in
  `packages/packages.json`.

All files and directories execept `lib`, `src`, `CNAME`, `package.json`,
`package-lock.json`, `README.md` and those beginning with a full stop are not to
be edited as they are output from the compiler.

## Emojicode Documentation Syntax

In addition to GFM, Emojicode Documentation supports syntax for callouts and
grammar.

### Callouts

To create a *Hint* callout begin all lines with `>!H`. Likewise, *Caution*
notices are indicated by `>!N`.

Example:

```
>!H This chapter only introduces the three most important classes although there are many more.
>!H
>!H You can browse the whole API of the s package here.
```

### Grammar

A grammar rule is define like this:

```
$defined-rule$-> $rule$
```

All rule names must always be enclosed in `$` signs, while the rule being
defined is closed with `$->` instead of just a `$`.

The documentation compiler parses all rules, adds hyperlinks and warns of
undefined or unreachable rules.
